people that were, you know, 13, 14 years younger than I was that just graduated out of the Houston and Dallas and the big, big high schools.
The trigonometry and math and chemistry was all just a breeze for them.
It was just kind of a review for them and I had to really work at it and not only working at learning the subjects,
I had to learn how to study again.
And it was hard to discipline myself back to getting in a routine of studying.
Did they think of you as an old guy since you were 10 years older than they were?
No, there was still enough of us around.
Okay.
Particularly out at the Annex to
I guess it was more, I was thought of more as, as an old, older person, old guy, after I got on the main campus, where there were more, more younger students.
There was still a fair amount of veterans out there, and enough of them to, and I think that the whole society was, was appreciative of what
what people in the service had done during World War II.
Was there anybody during that year that you turned to for advice that you remember, a conversation that was important to you?
I don't recall, no.
And did you all come to the campus for football games or?
Yes, yeah, and that's about the only thing we came for.
You had a car.
Yeah.
One car.
I bought a brand new Buick.
Not Buick, Packard.
Packard straight eight with a Columbia overdrive in it.
What did you pay?
About $1,800 I think it was.
Don't you wish you had it now?
I sure do.
And we bought that
in the late spring of 49.
It was a 49 model.
Did you, when you came?
Well we had two cars.
No I had a Jeep.
Oh really?
When you came up here did you bring them both?
Yeah.
And I guess the first semester I sold that Jeep to somebody who just graduated from A&M that was going to Alaska.
Of course, I walked all the classes out there at 10X.
And you wore your old uniforms, you said, to class?
Yeah.
I was getting $120 a month from the government.
She spells her name F-L-O-R-I-S?
F-L-O-R-A-C-E.
A-C-E, okay.
How did you and the other guys and the other students out there, how did y'all behave in class?
Was there any mischief?
I don't recall.
I recall everybody being pretty serious about what they were doing.
And you went regularly?
Yes.
And you didn't go to sleep in class?
No.
Was there any kind of pranks or tricks?
I don't recall any.
Now, who took charge of those 18-year-old freshmen?
Who was out there to...
I don't know, and I really wasn't too concerned about that.
Now, I know they organized a fishman band and the fish drill team.
Did you all see that, those two groups practicing?
I remember the band, and I like to hear the band.
Yes, I can remember that.
And I can remember them drilling out there and whatnot.
You know, I spent five years watching people drill and conducting a lot of it myself, so that wasn't really anything worth going to see.
What was it like when you went to the football games that fall here?
How did you feel and what did you all do?
Well, I guess pretty much like the youngsters do now, still everybody stood up and everybody participated in all of the
All the yells.
And you kissed your date after?
Yeah, yeah.
And then that first fall, if you and your wife were going to kind of have a little bit of a good time on a Saturday night, what did you and the other married folks do?
Oh, some time we'd get together and play bridge.
Once in a while we'd go to the picture show.
Where?
In Bryan.
In Bryan, we'd go to the picture show.
Where'd you buy groceries?
At A&P, usually before she'd come into Bryan and buy groceries.
But usually she did that after, on a work day after she got through the work on her way home.
And did y'all go visit family out of town much?
Well, not too much, but we did.
Her folks lived in Dallas, and mine lived, of course, down in Sweeney.
And I had a brother then that was, let me see, Chuck was living in El Campo, I guess, at that time.
Yeah, we visited family.
And you and your veterans' buddies didn't, y'all weren't hazed in any way?
No.
Nobody told you how to dress or walk or anything?
Then, when did y'all move to College View?
At the end of the spring semester?
Yes, during the summer.
We moved over here, and of course I went to summer school,
here on campus.
I don't believe they had a summer school out at the annex.
I don't think so.
I don't remember.
Do you remember what the rent was at Collinsview?
Twenty dollars.
Describe that apartment, please.
Well, in size, I guess it was probably 24 foot square.
One bedroom?
Two bedrooms.
Half of it had two bedrooms.
In between those bedrooms was a walk-in closet.
Across the back was a shower and a bathroom, and then there was an area that was probably six by eight that was the kitchen.
And it did furnish a stove, but no refrigerator.
So you had to buy?
We bought a used refrigerator for $50.
But that was a lot of money then.
Yeah, and used it all the time that we were in.
And College View, I presume, was filled up?
Yes, yes, there was.
eight apartments in each building.
Were you all on the first or second floor?
We was on the ground floor.
Was that better than being upstairs?
Well, yes.
Our oldest son was born in College View.
And, of course, he wasn't born there.
He was born in St.
Joseph.
We were living there.
Who was the doctor?
Smith.
Roy Smith.
a Navy doctor, and a World War I and II better.
Oh, boy.
And I presume you all made some good friends in College View.
Yes, yes, we did.
One of the ladies is still, we still visit with her from time to time and correspond with her.
She now lives in Tucson.
Her husband is dead.
But she's the only one of the people that
that lived in that apartment, although we knew and kept up with all of them for a while.
It wasn't one thing about that.
All right.
Describe a class day routine for you and your wife living in College View.
I presume you walked class.
I presume you didn't drive.
No, I rode over with Floris when she went to work.
Oh, okay.
In the fall, after summer school, before I enrolled in the fall semester, I went by to see Joe Orr.
You know Joe?
Joe was in charge of surveying in the civil engineering department, and had a business, and he did
Most of the survey that was done in this area, Joel did.
Well, I already had my license, so I went to work for Joel.
Do you remember what the pay was?
something like a dollar an hour, two dollars an hour, maybe a dollar and a half, I don't know, something.
Less than two.
But anyway, it wasn't long before I was pretty well running my store's business.
So you're doing that while being a full-time student?
Yeah.
So what I did, I went over there with Floris, and I tried to schedule
my classes all in blocks to where I went just from one class to another with a minimum amount of time in between.
Couldn't always do that.
But what I'd do is, Mr. Orr had an office there in the old Negro building there, and I'd go in his office and work on a survey, or maybe do a little studying, but more apt to work on.
He had a drafting table and I'd
old rotary calculator in there.
Now was civil engineering pretty well all in Nagel Hall?
Yeah.
And where did you, what part of the campus did you have most of your classes?
Where, where did you?
There in the academic building.
The chemistry building, you know, we had chemistry classes over there, but the math was nearly, and the English, as I recall, was all in the academic building at that time.
Who did you turn to for academic advice on what courses to take and so forth?
Who was your advisor?
No, it wasn't.
Who was that?
Randall.
Dean Ranstle?
Ranstle, yeah.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Oh, see, I knew him.
Was he a good advisor?
Yeah, I thought he was.
I'd be surprised if you hadn't said that.
I liked him.
I don't say I didn't need any guidance, because I always needed all the guidance I could get.
But what I was going to take never was a problem for me.
The only way it would become a problem was if I had to take something that was, you know, prerequisite for something else, I had to get it all in the right order.
And once in a while they'd let me take something out of order, if it fit in.
Do you remember some of the nicknames you all gave to the faculty?
Well, it was Coach Snuffy Smith.
Why was he called Snuffy?
From I guess a cartoon character.
Did you know him?
I had him.
Fred Benson.
Oh, describe Fred Benson.
Make believe I never met him.
Fred Benson was the best teacher that I ever had at A&E.
He was, I guess, probably an instructor at that point in time.
I had some good teachers.
Dr. Nederman, did you know him?
Oh, Wendell Netterman.
Yes, yes, yes.
I had him.
He later would be president at what is now the University of Texas at Arlington.
Yes.
Spencer Buchanan.
You know him?
Of course I went to work for him.
Describe Benson, though, and describe his personality and the way he taught.
He gave you a course outline.
He wrote every note on the board.
And he didn't, when I say write, that's a misstatement.
He printed everything.
And he would get up to the blackboard and he would be, he would be riding with this hand and racing with this hand.
And he'd ride over here in the race.
And everything that he, whatever he expected you to know, he put up there on that board.
Was he always well organized?
Yes.
Of course I could tell he was.
He knew, he knew what he was, and he presented things
in an organized, logical manner, step one, two, three, that, like I say, he was a Snuffin Smith.
I don't know where they're all, I'll put this down for record, but that's,
I had him for, I guess it was 305, first structures course.
And I had Benson for the lab.
And that's just like walking from daylight to dark.
I mean walking out of a dark room into bright light.
And Dr. Nederman was good.
Bob Shiller.
You know Bob?
Bob Bush, you know what, he knows hydraulics.
I knew his dad, I don't know if he ever knew.
His dad retired from the highway department and was working for Buchanan when I went to work for him.
See, this is an editorial note to the typist.
Dr. Wendell Nederman, N-E-D-D-E-R-M-A-N, was president at the University of Texas at Arlington, and one day he told me that he went into then the Dean of Engineering Fred Benson's office to seek his advice.
He'd been offered the job to go up to what was then Arlington State College, a two-year school,
and they were going to make it into a senior college and he was offered the job to organize the junior and senior years for engineering and to head the engineering program up there.
He told me that he went into Dean Fred Benson's office and asked him what he
thought he should do.
And he said Benson told him that if he stayed here at A&M, he had a fine future, he was a splendid teacher, a good researcher, that he would do well.
But he said Benson then looked out the window and said, but if you go up there, goodness knows what might happen, because who knows how big
Arlington may be as a city, and how big the Dallas-Fort Worth area might become, and who knows what kind of a school you might create.
Well, he moved from dean of engineering to be the vice president for academics, and then he was the president that led the University of Texas at Arlington to become a real, good, solid
a very broad curriculum, end of note.
As you, were you still, by your sophomore year, were you still wearing old World War II uniforms to class reckon?
Yeah, yeah.
And did you get a nickname?
No.
You didn't get any?
And did members of the Corps ever bother you veterans walking down the hallway or anything?
Not at all.
They respected you?
Yes.
Of course my day as I started out I'd go to class, I'd go over at eight o'clock and if I had eight o'clock class I went to eight o'clock and if I didn't have one at nine o'clock I went to Mr. Orr's.
office and worked over 10, and if I had 10 o'clock class then I went there and I came back.
So I didn't spend a lot of time wandering around over the campus.
And then in the afternoons I tried to block as many afternoons free as I could, and I'd take a survey crew and go out and do whatever work needed to be done in the afternoons and then on the weekends, and I'd also came
come up there and work at night in Mr. Orr's office.
I had the key to his office, and that's really the way I met Spencer Buchanan.
Spencer Buchanan worked up there all the time.
He was always up there, either in class or.
And of course he had a consulting business at that time.
And you never thought about changing your major.
Civil was what you always wanted to do.
That's right.
Were there any easy courses you remember?
Were there any, for anybody?
Well, I'll tell you an instance.
I don't know if you call it easy or not.
surveying course, I made an A in.
The second one, when I got my grade back, I had a B. And I was working with Mr. Orr all the time, and I had made 90, 95 plus on all the tests, and I went in.
Now what would happen at this point in time, we were laying out a subdivision which was North Garden Acres in Bryan.
And when I'd have some time off, well I'd go out there and work on that subdivision and we'd have a survey lab where Mr. Orr would say, well Claim you take this
so-and-so can go out there and take a sound line of this trade or do whatever needs to be done out there, and I do.
I went in and talked to him, and that story says, well, I got to looking at my book, and he says, you missed so many laps.
And I said, yes, sir, I did miss a few.
I didn't know what to say.
Were there, as far as you and your buddies knew, were there any giveaway courses for the athletes?
Or did they go to the same classes everybody else went to?
Went to, now Darrell Hooper, who was shot put, and he was civil engineer and had some classes that I had.
The ones that I knew about, there was no favoritism shown in any way to any of them.
That's what I thought, I think that was true then.
Yeah.
The strong point of A&M at that point in time was, particularly for engineering, was when a student came out of A&M, he was ready to go to work and productively.
That's not true today.
Did you and your friends, while you were being students, did you all think you were getting useful, real world, applied engineering training?
Did you all think you were being well prepared?
In my early
engineering courses know.
And this is one of the biggest problems that I had was the textbook problems many times were problems that had really little or no practical application.
I am leaning towards practicality by nature.
And having worked
for as long as I did before I went to school, this was doubly hard for me.
I'd have a problem getting past the fact that the problem as stated was not something that you'd ever run, it wasn't a practical situation.
And I had to learn and really work hard at arriving at a numerical answer that I knew was not,
a practical type thing and the problem, you know, they'd tell me for instance, you know, you can't lay a sewer line on less than a half of
five-tenths percent grade.
Well, I just spent years down there on the coast where there was two feet to the mile of fall.
You couldn't.
And you knew better.
And I agreed that it was desirable to have that, but you wouldn't ever put in anything, or you'd have sewer lines 40 foot deep down there in the flat coast country.
Now, during the, let's talk about the campus a little.
During that time, the MSC was being built.
That's right.
What did you all think about it when you saw what it was going to become and what it did?
What was, what did you students think about the MSC?
Well, I thought it was a marvelous building and I was interested and went over there as much as I could
to see the construction and what was going on and the methods of construction.
The same for G. Rod White.
It was built during that time over there.
Oh, I forgot.
Yeah, yeah.
At about the same time?
Yeah.
A little bit earlier, maybe.
And Joe Orr's son,
was the superintendent on that job.
Which one?
G. Rowling.
Worked for Tellebson out in Houston, who was a contractor on that.
So to see big buildings built, you know, with lots of open span and things, these were not rare engineering feasts, but they were for a country boy that grew up out there in
Spent a lot of time out in the rice field running the condors.
Then when the MSC was finished, did you enjoy it?
Yes, yes.
We thought it was a wonderful, wonderful building.
Was there any discussion about it being an air-conditioned building from day one?
I don't recall.
Of course, we were all grateful to it.
But nobody said it was a superfluous waste of money or anything like that.
Well, I think anybody went through the Texas summer down here, everybody would find a cool place.
Although at College View, I bought a window fan, paid $20 for a kit for a window fan, and that was one of the best
investments are probably the best investment I ever made.
And then there were some mornings you would dry off because of the humidity.
More than once.
Let's see, did you and your wife and that youngster, did y'all go to Guyon Hall sometimes to movies and
Other things?
Yeah, sometime.
Of course even after we moved here, well all three of our boys were born while we lived, while I was in school, while we lived in college years.
And we had a black nanny that came into town and lived down here by Milliken, and she had a
or something that worked at A&M and she came up to him to be there at eight o'clock in the morning.
She took care of the children?
Yeah.
Oh, do you remember what you all paid her?
No, I don't know.
Probably five dollars a week or something like that.
Miss Emma was her.
Miss Emma.
And she was a dear friend of ours.
And the boys behaved for her.
Did you and the other veterans over there, did you all have any social life together?
Did you all have parties?
Oh again we played bridge sometimes, but my time was spent, it was consumed with
either work or going to school or studying.
Describe the student body in general then.
Where were they from geographically?
What kinds of families?
What kind of money?
What kind of attitudes did they have?
Well, they were, it was unusual for a student to have a car at that point in time.
all the Aggies that went wherever they were going hitchhiking.
And in places like, of course, at the East Gate out there, on Friday afternoons, there was always a line there, and it was an orderly arrangement, where the first one that got there was at the head of the line, and the second one was second, and everybody understood where their place was.
And people,
in the community, including us.
When we were going to Houston, we would particularly go by these gates, see if somebody wanted to go.
And same thing in Houston.
There was two or three places in Houston where the Aggies would gather to come back up here.
And if we were in that area, we'd go by and pick up whoever was there, as many as we could carry, and bring them back.
As far as
My relationship with the student body was really a minimum.
But where did these boys come from geographically?
I think all over.
Big towns and the country?
And the small ones.
Of course there was, as you would expect, there was more of them coming out of Dallas and Houston than there was out of
in Bay City.
Were they rich or poor or?
It would certainly be my impression that relative to what you see over on the campus nowadays, they were not near as well off financially.
They were more about
coming up here and getting an education.
And did it matter what your last name was, what your heredity was, what your background was?
Ninety-plus percent of the students came from Texas.
There were little or no minorities as we know minorities nowadays are called minorities.
But there were some Hispanics.